{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2639
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
===================================\
Transdisciplinary 15-Point Requirement Course Proposal\
\
Preparing students to meet the complex challenges facing modern societies, which are not solvable by individuals, single disciplines or within the academy, requires engaging them in boundary-spanning ways of learning, knowing, and doing. The Transdisciplinary 15-Point Requirement Courses (TRCs) will enable students to develop transdisciplinary skills, competencies and mindsets early in their university educations through exploration and analysis of a complex societal issue. The TRCs are designed to be foundational, relational, research-led, cohort-based, collaborative, and engaging. The suite of TRCs offered will also align with the four University of Auckland priority areas: 1) addressing the transition to sustainable ecosystems; 2) improving health and wellbeing for all; 3) advancing just, cultured, and diverse communities; and 4) innovating contemporary, distributed, and secure knowledge systems.\
In 2024, Waipapa Taumata Rau will offer two TRC pilots, designed to align with the Transdisciplinary Learning Criteria (see below) and implemented within a structured framework that provides consistency of learning outcomes and experience. This form invites proposals for TRCs to be offered in 2025 and 2026. There will also be other opportunities to submit proposals for TRCs to be offered in 2026.\
In the sections below, please provide a broad overview of your proposal for a TRC. Once completed, proposals should be submitted to cft@auckland.ac.nz no later than 15th November at 5PM.\
\
PART I: Your Course Proposal\
\
Name of the proposed 15-point Transdisciplinary Requirement Course (TRC) and the\
proposed Year and Semester (e.g. Artificial Intelligence and Humanity Semester 1 2026):\
\
Submitter(s) Name(s), Position(s), Department(s), and Faculty(ies)\
\
Department Heads of each staff member listed above have been notified of this Proposal and agreed in principle.\
\
The CFT Faculty Lead or TD Faculty Lead for each faculty involved has been notified of this proposal.\
      \
Briefly describe the course and how it relates to a complex societal issue (max 500 wds).\
To view brief descriptions of the 2024 TRC pilot courses, please click here.\
\
Please describe how your proposed TRC aligns with one or more of the University of Auckland priority areas (linked here and listed above). (max 200 words)\
   \
PART II: Meeting the Transdisciplinary Learning Criteria\
\
Please indicate briefly how your course will meet the seven Transdisciplinary Learning Criteria below.\
While detail may not be possible at this stage, this proposal should indicate that you have considered these at the initial stage of course development.\
\
1. Is framed around a complex societal issue\
No further information needed as you have addressed this above.\
\
2. Includes a mixed cohort of learners with diverse disciplinary interests from different faculties. (max 200 words)\
\
Indicate how you might appeal to a broad range of students. Are there any particular students who might enrol in your course?\
\
3. Co-taught by a team with relevant, diverse, and research-led disciplinary expertise, preferably cross-faculty. (max 200 words)\
\
Please designate any staff, not listed above, that have confirmed their interest in participating in the TRC or that you plan to approach to join this theme. A minimum team of 3-5 staff members should be confirmed at this stage.\
 \
4. Explores the multiple relevant dimensions of the issue\'92s complexity through a diverse and broad set of perspectives, scholarship, and research evidence. (max 200 words)\
\
Please provide an initial high-level list of the areas of scholarship, research, and perspectives your course is drawing from.\
\
5. Engages learners with expertise and knowledge systems that bridge academic and community perspectives through experiential or case-based learning. (max 350 words) Please describe your initial thoughts on how you plan to incorporate perspectives, understandings, and knowledge beyond the academic in your course content. You may wish to include a list of stakeholders relevant to the complex issue and potential pedagogical approaches for teaching students about stakeholder engagement. This may be achieved through experiential and case-based learning, including real world experiences such as field trips and interactions with key community members, as well as reimagined experiences, such as role-playing co-design scenarios and case studies. Please include any communities, industries or individuals you plan to contact.\
 \
6. Engages learners in collaborative group-work and/or team-based learning. (max 200 words)\
Please indicate any preliminary ideas for including this in your course design, content or delivery.\
\
7. Engages learners in relational learning. (max 200 words)\
Please indicate any preliminary ideas for including this in your course design, content or delivery\
\
\
PART III: How can we support the development of your course?\
\
Do you plan to use any Technology Enhanced Learning? If so, indicate if you would like training or assistance to develop those plans. (max 200 words)\
  \
Please list any questions you would like the Transdisciplinary Leadership Team to answer related to this proposal. (max 200 words)\
\
Please list any specific support your team would value in putting together this course. (max 200 words)\
===================================\
 \
 Several of us have been talking about a course revolving around something like: "Evolution and Society." Many societal and political debates involve fundamental questions like: "Where did we come from?" "Where are we going?" "Who are we?" Darwin's theory of evolution shattered previous religious paradigms on these questions, inspiring many attempts to provide new answers -- answers which did not always turn out to be good ones. We propose to study a variety of controversies linked to this shift. A rough outline might be:\
1. Origins stories and their societal significance\
2. Are we animals? Popular responses to the theory of evolution\
3. The assumption of Progress and its travails\
4. Racism and antiracism in science and religion\
5. Colonialism and evolution\
6. Eugenics and Lysenkoism\
7. Nature and Nuture\
8. Sociobiology and its critics\
9. Are we animals, part 2: Sex and gender\
10. The endtimes: Escatology in religion and science\
11. Evolution, Society, and Aotearoa\
\
Wed 25 October, 11-12:30pm\
Wed 25 October, 2:30-4pm\
\
Please indicate the session that works best for you. You can choose more than one date.\
If you are unable to attend either of these sessions and would like to discuss your idea with someone from the Transdisciplinary Team\
\
\
\
\
\
Jonathan Scott -- Brit history 1500-1800\
https://profiles.auckland.ac.nz/jonathan-scott\
\
\
Joseph Zizek - French revolution etc\
https://profiles.auckland.ac.nz/j-zizek\
\
Lisa Bailey - medieval Christianity etc\
https://profiles.auckland.ac.nz/lk-bailey/publications\
\
Robert Wicks - history of philosophy\
https://profiles.auckland.ac.nz/r-wicks/teaching\
\
\
\
Caroline Blyth\
https://www.religiousstudiesproject.com/persons/caroline-blyth/\
Dr Caroline Blyth is a lecturer of Religious Studies in the School of Humanities at the University of Auckland\'92s Faculty of Arts. Her research and teaching focuses on representations of gender and sexuality in religious discourses and popular culture, using feminist and queer theories to inform her work. She is currently writing a book about the biblical character Delilah and her representations as femme fatale in popular culture, and is also working concurrently on a project that will consider the complex relationships between religion and gender violence. Caroline is also involved in a new student engagement project, Hidden Perspectives: Bringing the Arts out of the Closet, which provides a platform for LGBTI student voices within the Faculty of Arts teaching and research community.\
\
}